Vattenfall InCharge documentation (#26561)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/incharge.markdown

---
title: Vattenfall InCharge
description: Instructions on how to integrate your Vattenfall InCharge managed charging stations within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Energy
  - Sensor

> ha_release: 2023.3.4

Reviewer: New features can never be shipped in patch releases 😉 

```suggestion
ha_release: 2023.4.0

```

ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@tgriek'
ha_domain: incharge
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_config_flow: true

> ha_integration_type: integration

Reviewer: I think this is a service?

```suggestion
ha_integration_type: service

```

Author: Not sure? @klaasnicolaas ?

Reviewer: No need to ping Klaas for that, see: <https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2022/10/24/hubs-devices-services-virtual-integrations>

(noticed it was also missing form the manifest in the core PR).

Author: Klaas added a new-integration label that confused me. In any case I am fine with whatever suits the standards guys.

Reviewer: > Klaas added a new-integration label that confused me.

It is new integration 🤷 
This defines the type of integration it is.

> whatever suits the standards guys.

It is not about standards.

Please note: What Klaas added are GitHub labels and have nothing to do with the contents/code itself.

Author: Gotcha. The idea and functioning behind this new integration is very similar to:
[Wallbox](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/wallbox/)
[Growatt](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/growatt_server/)
What makes those of the type integration and this one a service?

Reviewer: Those are existing integrations that haven't specified them yet (please note how the linked blog post is just a couple of months old). For new integrations, it should just be set correctly from the get-go.

---

> This is a sensor to collect information from your charging station managed by Vattenfall InCharge using [Vattenfall InCharge](https://myincharge.vattenfall.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration provides sensors to collect information from your charging station managed by Vattenfall InCharge using [Vattenfall InCharge](https://myincharge.vattenfall.com/).

```
